Hello everyone, we are Cristina and Elena, and today
we will briefly talk about bronchitis:
a common respiratory disease
that affects the bronchi.
Well, this is the table of contents which
we will present to you one by one below.
First, the introduction: What is bronchitis?
Bronchitis is the inflammation of the
bronchial tubes, the airways that carry
oxygen to your lungs. Most cases
of acute bronchitis improve within a few days, but
the cough can last several weeks after
the infection has cleared up. Often, the
same viruses that cause colds and flu
can cause acute bronchitis. These viruses
spread through the air when someone coughs or
through physical contact, for example,
when someone hasn’t washed their hands.
Likewise, bacteria can cause acute bronchitis,
but not as often as viruses.
In the image on the right, we can
see a comparison of bronchitis with
normal bronchi. In bronchitis,
we can see that the bronchus is much
more inflamed and clogged with mucus.
Symptoms. Bronchitis presents
with symptoms like a persistent cough,
usually accompanied by phlegm,
shortness of breath, and, in some cases,
fever and fatigue. Sometimes, the chest
may feel tight or under slight pressure.
These symptoms usually last one to two weeks,
but the cough can last longer.
If these symptoms appear, especially
shortness of breath and fever,
it’s advisable to see a doctor for
a full diagnosis and to consider
treatment options.
As for the causes, bronchitis can be
caused by infections or environmental factors.
It’s usually caused by viral infections,
such as those that cause colds and flu, but
it can also be due to bacteria or irritants
like cigarette smoke, pollution, and
chemicals. Cold or sudden temperature
changes can increase the risk.
Finally, regarding treatment. Usually,
only the symptoms are treated while the
immune system does its job and clears the
virus. Fever is usually treated with antipyretics,
such as acetaminophen, and cough medications.
Also, treatment depends on whether bronchitis
is acute or chronic. For acute bronchitis, doctors
usually recommend rest, staying hydrated,
and, if necessary, medications to relieve
the cough. In cases of chronic bronchitis,
it’s important to avoid irritants
like tobacco, and longer-term
medical treatment may be needed. Consulting
a healthcare professional is always essential.
Some relevant data that the creators
of this presentation found interesting,
for example, is that bronchitis affects
5% of the adult population and occurs
more frequently in winter. In Spain, there
are over 200,000 cases of bronchitis annually.
To conclude, we wanted to emphasize that,
if you have persistent symptoms, consult
a doctor. Taking care of our lungs is vital
for our quality of life. Thank you very much.